1. player_stats_final.csv

This data file provides processed data for individual NBA players during the 2018-19 season from the raw data files. The variables are:


player_name : Player Name

Pos : Position (PG = point guard, SG = shooting guard, SF = small forward, PF = power forward, C = center) 

Age : Age of Player at the start of February 1st of that season.

Tm : Team

G : Games

salary : year salary in $USD

WAR : Wins Above Replacement - metric that estimates the number of additional wins a player contributes to a team than a player deemed replacement level. Basketball Reference calculates WAR as 2.7 * VORP (Value Over Replacement Player). Replacement level players have a WAR of 0.7 according to this metric.

PPG : Points per Game

PPM : Points per Minute of player court time

APG : Assists per Game

APM : Assists per Minute of player court time

RPG : Rebounds per game

RPM : Rebounds per minute

OPG : Offensive Rebounds per Game

DPG : Defensive Rebounds per Game

SPG : Steals per Game

BPG : Blocks per Game

TPG : Turnovers per Game

FPG : Fouls per game

eFGp : Effective Field Goal Percentage - This statistic adjusts for the fact that a 3-point field goal is worth one more point than a 2-point field goal.

PER : Player Efficiency Rating  - measure of per-minute production standardised at a league average value of 15)

TSp : True Shooting Percentage (measure of shooting efficiency that accounts for 2P, 3P & FT)

OWS : Offensive Win Shares (estimate of number of wins contributed by a player due to his offense)

DWS : Defensive Win Shares (estimate of number of wins contributed by a player due to his defence)

WS : Win Shares (estimate of number of wins contributed by a player)

WSpG : Win Shares per Game (estimate of number of wins contributed by a player per 48 minutes - league average is .100)

2. team_stats_final.csv

This data file provides processed data for NBA teams during the 2018-19 season from the raw data files. The variables are:

Team : Team name

G : Games played

W : Wins

Rk : Team ranking based on wins

team payroll budget in 2019-20 in $USD

ORtg : Offensive Rating; An estimate of points produced (players) or scored (teams) per 100 possessions

DRtg : Defensive Rating; An estimate of points allowed per 100 possessions

TSp : True Shooting Percentage (measure of shooting efficiency that accounts for 2P, 3P & FT)

eFGp : Effective Field Goal Percentage - This statistic adjusts for the fact that a 3-point field goal is worth one more point than a 2-point field goal.

PPG : Points per game

APG : Assists per game

RPG : Rebounds per game

OPG : Offensive rebounds per game

DPG : Defensive rebounds per game

SPG : Steals per game

BPG : Blocks per game

TPG : Turnovers per game

FPG : Fouls per game

PPM : Points per minute

APM : Assists per minute

RPM : Rebounds per minute
